Disable revision counter by default (#918)
longhorn/website: content/docs/1.7.0/advanced-resources/deploy/revision_counter.md

weight: 7
---

The revision counter is a mechanism that Longhorn uses to track each replica's updates.

During replica creation, Longhorn will create a 'revision.counter' file with its initial counter set to 0. And for every write to the replica, the counter in 'revision.counter' file will be increased by 1.

> The Longhorn Engine will use these counters as a heuristic to make a best effort to ensure all replicas are consistent during startup. Note that because the write IOs in Longhorn are parallel, data consistency guarantee via revision counter mechanism is best-effort only. These counters are also used during salvage recovery to decide which replica has the latest update.

Author: Thank you. I incorporated your feedback

> Disable Revision Counter is an option in which every write on replicas is not tracked. When this setting is used, performance is improved. This option can be helpful if you prefer higher performance and have a stable network infrastructure (e.g. an internal network) with enough CPU resources. When the Longhorn Engine starts, it will skip checking the revision counter for all replicas, but auto-salvage will still be supported through the replica's head file stat. For details on how auto-salvage works without the revision counter, refer to [this section.](#auto-salvage-support-with-revision-counter-disabled)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Disable Revision Counter* option prevents Longhorn from tracking every write operation on replicas. This option can be useful if you have a stable network infrastructure with sufficient CPU resources, and want to maximize the performance of those resources.

When the revision counter is disabled, the Longhorn Engine skips checking the revision counter for all replicas at startup. However, auto-salvage still functions because Longhorn can use certain file properties to identify the replica to be used for recovery. For more information about how auto-salvage functions without the revision counter, see [Auto-Salvage Support with Revision Counter Disabled](#auto-salvage-support-with-revision-counter-disabled).
```

Author: Thank you. I incorporated your feedback

When revision counter is enabled and all the replicas in the volume are in the 'ERR' state, the engine controller will be in a faulted state, and for engine to recover the volume, it will get the replica with the largest revision counter as 'Source of Truth' to rebuild the rest replicas.

When the revision counter is disabled in this case, the engine controller will get the `volume-head-xxx.img` last modified time and head file size of all replicas. It will also do the following steps:

> 1. Based on the time that `volume-head-xxx.img` was last modified, get the replicas with the latest modified timestamp.
> 2. From the replica candidates from the above step, compare the head file size of the candidates, and pick the ones with the largest file size.
> 3. Change the replica candidates from the above step to 'RW' mode, and the rest of the replicas are marked as 'ERR' mode. The errored replicas are rebuilt based on the replica chosen as the source of truth.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Identify the replicas with the latest modified time based on when `volume-head-xxx.img` was last modified.

1. Compare the head file size of the identified replicas, and then select the replicas with the largest file size.

1. Change the mode of the selected replicas to `RW`. The rest of the replicas are marked as `ERR` and then rebuilt based on the replica designated as the source of truth.
```

Author: Thank you. I incorporated your feedback
